To connect to Oracle Database from SQL Developer:

Access the menu from which you can select SQL Developer:
   On a Windows system: From the Start menu, select All Programs.
        On a Linux system:
        On Gnome: Click Application.
        On KDE: Click K.
Select Oracle - ORACLE_HOME.

Select Application Development.

Select SQL Developer.
If this is the first time you have started SQL Developer on your system, you are prompted to enter the full path to java.exe 
(for example, C:\jdk1.5.0\bin\java.exe). Either type the full path after the prompt or browse to it, and then press the key Enter.
The Oracle SQL Developer window opens.

In the navigation frame of the window, click Connections.
The Connections pane appears.

In the Connections pane, click the icon New Connection.
The New/Select Database Connection window opens.

In the New/Select Database Connection window, type the appropriate values in the fields Connection Name, Username, and Password.
For security, the password characters that you type appear as asterisks.
Near the Password field is the check box Save Password. By default, it is deselected. Oracle recommends accepting the default.

In the New/Select Database Connection window, click the tab Oracle.
The Oracle pane appears.

In the Oracle pane:
For Role, accept the default.
For Connection Type, accept the default (Basic).
In the fields Hostname and Port, type the appropriate values.
Select the option SID.
In the SID field, type the appropriate value.

In the New/Select Database Connection window, click the button Test.
The connection is tested. If the connection succeeds, the Status indicator changes from blank to Success.

Description of success.gif follows
Description of the illustration success.gif

If the test succeeded, click the button Connect.
The New/Select Database Connection window closes. The Connections pane shows the connection whose name you entered in the Connection Name field in step 7.
You are in the SQL Developer environment.
To exit SQL Developer, select Exit from the File menu.
